Update cardinality aggregation. (#9419)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _aggregations/metric/cardinality.md

# Cardinality aggregations

The `cardinality` metric is a single-value metric that counts the number of unique or distinct values of a field.

Cardinality count is approximate. See [Controlling precision](#controlling-precision).

## Parameters

> The `cardinality` aggregation takes the following parameters: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `cardinality` aggregation takes the following parameters.
```

| Parameter             | Required/Optional | Data type       | Description |
| :--                   | :--               |  :--            | :--         |
| `field`               | Required          | String          | The field for which the cardinality is estimated. |

> | `precision_threshold` | Optional          | Numeric         | Count below which good accuracy is expected.      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `precision_threshold` | Optional          | Numeric         | Count below which good accuracy is expected. See [Controlling precision](#controlling-precision).     |
```

> | `precision_threshold` | Optional          | Numeric         | Count below which good accuracy is expected. See [Controlling precision](#controlling-precision).     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `precision_threshold` | Optional          | Numeric         | The threshold below which counts are expected to be close to accurate. See [Controlling precision](#controlling-precision) for more information.     |
```

> | `execution_hint`      | Optional          | String          | How to run the aggregation. Allowed values are `ordinals` and `direct`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `execution_hint`      | Optional          | String          | How to run the aggregation. Valid values are `ordinals` and `direct`. |
```

Reviewer: Should we clarify what `ordinals` and `direct` mean or is it documented somewhere already?

> | `missing`             | Optional          | Same as `field`'s type | Bucket to assign missing instances of the field. If not given, missing values are ignored. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `missing`             | Optional          | Same as `field`'s type | The bucket used to store missing instances of the field. If not provided, missing values are ignored. |
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Confirm that my changes to line 26 reflect the intended meaning.

## Example

> The following example finds the number of unique product IDs in the commerce sample data:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example request finds the number of unique product IDs in the sample e-commerce data:
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Line 30: Does "the sample e-commerce data" refer to "the OpenSearch Dashboards sample e-commerce data"?

Author: Yes.

Reviewer 2: @dwelsch-esi Let's go ahead and add that for clarity.

> The following example request finds the number of unique product IDs in the sample e-commerce data:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example request finds the number of unique product IDs in the OpenSearch Dashboards sample e-commerce data:
```

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Example response

> The aggregation returns the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The aggregation returns the following response:
```

Author: ```suggestion
The aggregation returns the cardinality in the `unique_products` variable:
```

> 

Reviewer 2: @dwelsch-esi Ideally, we would provide a little more description re: what the response contains/demonstrates to the user.

Author: See suggested change.

Reviewer 2: @dwelsch-esi Looks good, but should "count" follow "cardinality"?

Reviewer 2: And actually, let's flesh out a bit: "As shown in the following example response, the aggregation returns the cardinality count in the `unique_products` variable:"

```json
{
  "took": 176,
  "timed_out": false,
  "_shards": {
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "skipped": 0,
    "failed": 0
  },
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 4675,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": null,
    "hits": []
  },
  "aggregations": {
    "unique_products": {
      "value": 7033
    }
  }
}
```

## Controlling precision

An accurate cardinality calculation requires loading all the values into a hash set and returning its size. This approach doesn't scale well; it can require huge amounts of memory and cause high latencies.

> You can control the trade-off between memory and accuracy with the `precision_threshold` setting. This parameter sets the threshold below which counts are expected to be close to accurate. Counts higher than this value might be less accurate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can control the trade-off between memory and accuracy by using the `precision_threshold` setting. This parameter sets the threshold below which counts are expected to be close to accurate. Counts higher than this value may be less accurate.
```

The default value of `precision_threshold` is 3,000. The maximum supported value is 40,000.

> The cardinality aggregation uses the [HyperLogLog++ algorithm](https://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/fr//pubs/archive/40671.pdf). Cardinality counts are typically very accurate up to the precision threshold, and are within 6% of the true count in most other cases, even with a threshold as low as 100.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The cardinality aggregation uses the [HyperLogLog++ algorithm](https://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/fr//pubs/archive/40671.pdf). Cardinality counts are typically very accurate up to the precision threshold and are within 6% of the true count in most other cases, even with a threshold as low as 100.
```

> The cardinality aggregation uses the [HyperLogLog++ algorithm](https://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/fr//pubs/archive/40671.pdf). Cardinality counts are typically very accurate up to the precision threshold and are within 6% of the true count in most other cases, even with a threshold as low as 100.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The cardinality aggregation uses the [HyperLogLog++ algorithm](https://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/fr//pubs/archive/40671.pdf). Cardinality counts are typically very accurate up to the precision threshold and are within 6% of the true count in most other cases, even with a threshold of as low as 100.
```

> ### Pre-computing hashes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Precomputing hashes
```

> For high-cardinality string fields, storing hash values for the field in the index and computing the cardinality of the hash can save compute and memory resources. Use this approach with caution; it is more efficient only for sets with long strings and/or high cardinality. Numeric fields and less taxing string sets are better processed directly.

Reviewer 2: "for the field in the index" => "for the index field"? Please change "less taxing" to something like "less complex".

Author: ```suggestion
For high-cardinality string fields, storing hash values for the index field and computing the cardinality of the hash can save compute and memory resources. Use this approach with caution; it is more efficient only for sets with long strings and/or high cardinality. Numeric fields and less memory-consuming string sets are better processed directly.
```

### Example: Controlling precision

> Set the precision threshold to 10000 unique values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the precision threshold to `10000` unique values:
```

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The response is similar to the result with the default threshold, but the returned value is slightly different. Vary the `precision_threshold` parameter to see its effect on the cardinality estimate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The response is similar to the result with the default threshold, but the returned value is slightly different. Vary the `precision_threshold` parameter to see how it affects the cardinality estimate.
```

  }
}
```  
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ## Missing values

Author: Please confirm accuracy and relevance of this section.

Author: Heh, yeah I guess you could supply one of the existing values. I think this is of academic interest anyway. If you're using aggregation to estimate cardinality, I don't think you're going to be too concerned with +/-1 value.
